Introduce Jetstream tables (#541)
mozilla/firefox-data-docs: src/datasets/jetstream.md

> Statistical summaries of telemetry data from experiments run in Mozilla

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Jetstream Datasets

Statistical summaries of telemetry data from experiments run in Mozilla
```

products are provided by Jetstream. These summaries are published to
BigQuery and serve both as the substrate for the result visualization
platform and as a resource for data scientists.

> Jetstream runs as part of the nightly ETL job. The tables are published

Reviewer: Generally for datasets we put the scheduling information at the bottom in a seperate section called "scheduling":

https://docs.telemetry.mozilla.org/datasets/batch_view/clients_daily/reference.html#scheduling

Can you use also provide a link to whatever code (in telemetry-airflow) which is doing the scheduling?

Author: I added the scheduling system with the tech specs but I want to highlight this to data scientists early.

client has enrolled, and week 0 results are available a week after the
enrollment period closes. Results for each window are published as soon
as complete data is available for all enrolled clients.

The “overall” window, published after the experiment has ended, is a
window beginning on each client’s day 0 that spans the longest period
for which all clients have complete data.

Jetstream computes statistics over several metrics by default, including
for any features associated with the experiment in Experimenter. Data
scientists can provide configuration to add additional metrics. Advice
on configuring Jetstream can be found at Jetstream’s Github wiki.

# Statistics tables

The statistics tables contain statistical summaries of their
corresponding aggregate tables. These tables are suitable for plotting
directly without additional transformations.

Statistics tables are named like:

`statistics_<slug>_{day, week, overall}_<index>`

A view is also created that concatenates all statistics tables for an
experiment of a given period type, named like:

`statistics_<slug>_{daily, weekly, overall}`

Statistics tables have the schema:

> <table>

Reviewer: Can we use a markdown table here (and elsewhere in the text), instead of HTML? I think that'd be much easier to review and maintain.

Author: This is what pandoc gave me when I asked for commonmark, which, sure enough, [does not spec tables](https://spec.commonmark.org/0.29/). ;_; I guess [pipe_tables](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#tables) is the extension I need?

I should add this to the contributing guide.

</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>`metric`</td>
<td>STRING</td>
<td>The slug of the metric, like `active_ticks` or `retained`</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>`statistic`</td>
<td>STRING</td>
<td>The slug of the statistic that was used to summarize the metric, like “mean” or “deciles”</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>`parameter`</td>
<td>NUMERIC (decimal)</td>
<td>A statistic-dependent quantity. For two-dimensional statistics like “decile,” this represents the x axis of the plot. For one-dimensional statistics, this is NULL.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>`comparison`</td>
<td>STRING</td>
<td>If this row represents a comparison between two branches, this row describes what kind of comparison, like `difference` or `relative_uplift`. If this row represents a measurement of a single branch, then this column is NULL.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>`comparison_to_branch`</td>
<td>STRING</td>
<td>If this row represents a comparison between two branches, this row describes which branch is being compared to. For simple A/B tests, this will be “control.”</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>`ci_width`</td>
<td>FLOAT64</td>

> <td>A value between 0 and 1 describing the width of the confidence interval represented by the lower and upper columns. Valued at 0.95 for 95% CIs.</td>

Reviewer: I think we can just use "confidence interval", rather than the abbreviation. Although... maybe I'm just revealing my ignorance but I find the use of "width" here confusing. Is this referring to a confidence level?

```suggestion
<td>A value between 0 and 1 describing the width of the confidence interval represented by the lower and upper columns. For example, 0.95 represents a confidence interval of 95%.</td>
```

Author: Confidence level is correct, yes. (I try to avoid "confidence level" to avoid suggesting that the reader should feel subjectively confident.)

Reviewer: Got it. I'd still prefer to avoid the abbreviation, but I'll leave the decision to you.

Author: Oh, I'd made the change :)

</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>`point`</td>
<td>FLOAT64</td>
<td>The point estimate of the statistic for the metric given the parameter.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>`lower`</td>
<td>FLOAT64</td>
<td>The lower bound of the confidence interval for the estimate.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>`upper`</td>
<td>FLOAT64</td>
<td>The upper bound of the confidence interval for the estimate.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>`window_index`</td>
<td>INT64</td>
<td>(views only) A base-1 index reflecting the analysis window from which the row is drawn (i.e. day 1, day 2, …).</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Each combination of `(segment, metric, statistic, parameter, comparison,
comparison_to_branch, ci_width)` uniquely describes a single data
point.

To extract the mean of `active_hours` for each branch from a weekly

> statistics view v, you could run the query:

Reviewer: This is pretty abstract. Can you make this more concrete and relatable by using an example from a real table?

Author: I don't want to promise that any specific table exists but I added a more realistic looking slug.

```sql
SELECT
    segment,
    window_index AS week,
    branch,
    point,
    lower,
    upper
FROM v
WHERE
    metric = "active_hours"
    AND statistic = "mean"
    AND comparison IS NULL
```

This query would return a row for each user segment, for each week of
the experiment, for each branch, with the mean of the `active_hours`
metric.

To see whether the absolute difference of the mean of `active_hours` was
different between the control and treatment branches, you could run:

```sql
SELECT
    window_index AS week,
    branch,
    point,
    lower,
    upper
FROM v
WHERE
    metric = "active_hours"
    AND statistic = "mean"
    AND comparison = "difference"
    AND branch = "treatment"
    AND comparison_to_branch = "control"
    AND segment = "all"
```

This query would return a row for each week of the experiment containing
an estimate of the absolute difference between the treatment and control
branches for the segment containing all users.

The available segments in a table should be derived from inspection of
the table.

> Jetstream’s Github wiki has a description of each statistic and

Reviewer: Link?

# Jetstream Datasets

Statistical summaries of telemetry data from experiments run in Mozilla

> products are provided by Jetstream. These summaries are published to

Author: Done!
